27. Remove Element
Easy
810
968
Companies
Given an integer array nums and an integer val, remove all occurrences of val in nums in-place. The order of the elements may be changed. Then return the number of elements in nums which are not equal to val.

Consider the number of elements in nums which are not equal to val be k, to get accepted, you need to do the following things:

Change the array nums such that the first k elements of nums contain the elements which are not equal to val. The remaining elements of nums are not important as well as the size of nums.
Return k.
Custom Judge:

The judge will test your solution with the following code:

int[] nums = [...]; // Input array
int val = ...; // Value to remove
int[] expectedNums = [...]; // The expected answer with correct length.
                            // It is sorted with no values equaling val.

int k = removeElement(nums, val); // Calls your implementation

assert k == expectedNums.length;
sort(nums, 0, k); // Sort the first k elements of nums
for (int i = 0; i < actualLength; i++) {
    assert nums[i] == expectedNums[i];
}
If all assertions pass, then your solution will be accepted.



Example 1:

Input: nums = [3,2,2,3], val = 3
Output: 2, nums = [2,2,_,_]
Explanation: Your function should return k = 2, with the first two elements of nums being 2.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).
Example 2:

Input: nums = [0,1,2,2,3,0,4,2], val = 2
Output: 5, nums = [0,1,4,0,3,_,_,_]
Explanation: Your function should return k = 5, with the first five elements of nums containing 0, 0, 1, 3, and 4.
Note that the five elements can be returned in any order.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).


Constraints:

0 <= nums.length <= 100
0 <= nums[i] <= 50
0 <= val <= 100

---
class Solution:
    def removeElement(self, nums: List[int], val: int) -> int:
        j = 0
        for i in range(len(nums)):
            if nums[i] != val:
                nums[j] = nums[i]
                j += 1
        return j


# Spoonfed Explanation:
The problem requires us to remove all occurrences of a given value from an array. The order of the elements may be changed. We are also asked to return the number of elements left in the array after the operation is performed.
So we need to remove all occurrences of the given value in-place and return the new length. To do this, we can use two pointers. One pointer will be used to iterate over the array, and the other pointer will be used to keep track of the next position where the element which is not equal to the given value is supposed to be placed.
Algorithm
Initialize two pointers i and j, where i is the slow-runner while j is the fast-runner.
If nums[i] == val, we increment j to skip the element nums[i].
If nums[i] != val, we copy nums[i] to nums[j] and increment both indexes at the same time.
Repeat the process until j reaches the end of the array and the new length is i.

